README.md, before:

# Stable Diffusion WebUI Aspect Ratio selector

Extension for [AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui.git) adding image aspect ratio selector buttons.


## Fork features

- New button `🔃` for calculation of height and width inverse
  - Normal mode: `1024x1024 and 16:9 = 1820x1024`
  - Reverse mode: `1024x1024 and 16:9 = 1024x576`
- Replace name of `Calc` button to `📐`
- New styles for buttons
- Better resolution presets (by formula: `f(x) = 512 + (1024-512)/4*x, 0 <= x <= 4`)
- Better ratios presets

![img](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/1124020774055981108/1125090516980203570/image.png)


## Updates

- 20/02/2023 :warning: this update will remove your local config files (`aspect_ratios.txt` and `resolutions.txt`) and it will create new default ones. These can be then modified freely and preserved in the future. For more info read [here](https://github.com/alemelis/sd-webui-ar/issues/9).

## Install

Browse to the `Extensions` tab -> go to `Install from URL` -> paste in `https://github.com/alemelis/sd-webui-ar` -> click `Install`


Here's how the UI looks like after installing this extension

<img width="666" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-30 at 20 37 56" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4661737/228946744-dbffc4c6-8a3f-4a42-8e47-1056b3558afc.png">

## Usage

- Click on the aspect ratio button you want to set. In the case of an aspect ratio greater than 1, the script fixes the width and changes the height. Whereas if the aspect ratio is smaller than 1, the width changes while the height is fixed.
- Reset image resolution by clicking on one of the buttons on the second row.

### Configuration

Aspect ratios can be defined in the `/sd-webui-ar/aspect_ratios.txt` file. For example,

```
1:1, 1.0
3:2, 3/2
4:3, 4/3
16:9, 16/9
# 6:13, 6/13
# 9:16, 9/16
# 3:5, 3/5
# 2:3, 2/3
# 19:16, 19/16 # fox movietone
# 5:4, 5/4 # medium format photo
# 11:8, 11/8 # academy standard
# IMAX, 1.43
# 14:9, 14/9
# 16:10, 16/10
# 𝜑, 1.6180 # golden ratio
# 5:3, 5/3 # super 16mm
# 1.85, 1.85 # US widescreen cinema
# DCI, 1.9 # digital imax
# 2:1, 2.0 # univisium
# 70mm, 2.2
# 21:9, 21/9 # cinematic wide screen
# δ, 2.414 # silver ratio
# UPV70, 2.76 # ultra panavision 70
# 32:9, 32/9 # ultra wide screen
# PV, 4.0 # polyvision
```

Note the `#` marking the line as a comment, i.e. the extension is not reading that line. To use a custom value, un-comment the relative line by removing the starting `#`.
A custom aspect ratio is defined as `button-label, aspect-ratio-value # comment`. It is recommended to set the `aspect-ratio-value` to a fraction, but a `float` or `int` will work as well. The `# comment` is optional.
The `button-label` will be displayed inside the button. It can be anything you like.

Resolutions presets are defined inside `resolutions.txt` file,

```
1, 512, 512 # 1:1 square
2, 768, 512 # 3:2 landscape
3, 403, 716 # 9:16 portrait
```

The format to be used is `button-label, width, height, # optional comment`. As before, lines starting with `#` will be ignored.

## Calculator Panel
Use the calculator to determine new width or height values based on the aspect ratio of source dimensions.
- Click `Calc` to show or hide the aspect ratio calculator
- Set the source dimensions:
  - Enter manually, or
  - Click ⬇️ to get source dimentions from txt2img/img2img sliders, or
  - Click 🖼️ to get source dimensions from input image component on the current tab
- Click ⇅ to swap the width and height, if desired
- Set the desired width or height, then click either `Calculate Height` or `Calculate Width` to calculate the missing value
- Click `Apply` to send the values to the txt2txt/img2img sliders
---
<img width="666" style="border: solid 3px black;" alt="Basic usage of aspect ratio calculator" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/121050401/229391634-4ec06027-e603-4672-bad9-ec77647b0941.gif">

Commit message:

Description for `🔍` button Update preview

README.md, after:

# Stable Diffusion WebUI Aspect Ratio selector

Extension for [AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui.git) adding image aspect ratio selector buttons.


## Fork features

- New button `🔃` for calculation of height and width inverse
  - Normal mode: `1024x1024 and 16:9 = 1820x1024`
  - Reverse mode: `1024x1024 and 16:9 = 1024x576`
- Replace name of `Calc` button to `📐`
- New styles for buttons
- Better resolution presets (by formula: `f(x) = 512 + (1024-512)/4*x, 0 <= x <= 4`)
- Better ratios presets
- New button `🔍` for rounding dimensions to the nearest multiples of 4 (`1023x101` => `1024x100`)

![img](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/1124020774055981108/1125719548587417630/image.png)


## Updates

- 20/02/2023 :warning: this update will remove your local config files (`aspect_ratios.txt` and `resolutions.txt`) and it will create new default ones. These can be then modified freely and preserved in the future. For more info read [here](https://github.com/alemelis/sd-webui-ar/issues/9).

## Install

Browse to the `Extensions` tab -> go to `Install from URL` -> paste in `https://github.com/alemelis/sd-webui-ar` -> click `Install`


Here's how the UI looks like after installing this extension

<img width="666" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-30 at 20 37 56" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4661737/228946744-dbffc4c6-8a3f-4a42-8e47-1056b3558afc.png">

## Usage

- Click on the aspect ratio button you want to set. In the case of an aspect ratio greater than 1, the script fixes the width and changes the height. Whereas if the aspect ratio is smaller than 1, the width changes while the height is fixed.
- Reset image resolution by clicking on one of the buttons on the second row.

### Configuration

Aspect ratios can be defined in the `/sd-webui-ar/aspect_ratios.txt` file. For example,

```
1:1, 1.0
3:2, 3/2
4:3, 4/3
16:9, 16/9
# 6:13, 6/13
# 9:16, 9/16
# 3:5, 3/5
# 2:3, 2/3
# 19:16, 19/16 # fox movietone
# 5:4, 5/4 # medium format photo
# 11:8, 11/8 # academy standard
# IMAX, 1.43
# 14:9, 14/9
# 16:10, 16/10
# 𝜑, 1.6180 # golden ratio
# 5:3, 5/3 # super 16mm
# 1.85, 1.85 # US widescreen cinema
# DCI, 1.9 # digital imax
# 2:1, 2.0 # univisium
# 70mm, 2.2
# 21:9, 21/9 # cinematic wide screen
# δ, 2.414 # silver ratio
# UPV70, 2.76 # ultra panavision 70
# 32:9, 32/9 # ultra wide screen
# PV, 4.0 # polyvision
```

Note the `#` marking the line as a comment, i.e. the extension is not reading that line. To use a custom value, un-comment the relative line by removing the starting `#`.
A custom aspect ratio is defined as `button-label, aspect-ratio-value # comment`. It is recommended to set the `aspect-ratio-value` to a fraction, but a `float` or `int` will work as well. The `# comment` is optional.
The `button-label` will be displayed inside the button. It can be anything you like.

Resolutions presets are defined inside `resolutions.txt` file,

```
1, 512, 512 # 1:1 square
2, 768, 512 # 3:2 landscape
3, 403, 716 # 9:16 portrait
```

The format to be used is `button-label, width, height, # optional comment`. As before, lines starting with `#` will be ignored.

## Calculator Panel
Use the calculator to determine new width or height values based on the aspect ratio of source dimensions.
- Click `Calc` to show or hide the aspect ratio calculator
- Set the source dimensions:
  - Enter manually, or
  - Click ⬇️ to get source dimentions from txt2img/img2img sliders, or
  - Click 🖼️ to get source dimensions from input image component on the current tab
- Click ⇅ to swap the width and height, if desired
- Set the desired width or height, then click either `Calculate Height` or `Calculate Width` to calculate the missing value
- Click `Apply` to send the values to the txt2txt/img2img sliders
---
<img width="666" style="border: solid 3px black;" alt="Basic usage of aspect ratio calculator" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/121050401/229391634-4ec06027-e603-4672-bad9-ec77647b0941.gif">
